So far, we've talked a lot about automating builds and deployments.
You've already learned about how to use infrastructure as code to stand
up Cloud-based resources with tools like Cloud formation.
So putting all these things together,
you could potentially spin up 1,000 web servers in a few minutes and
deploying new code to each with relative ease, that's pretty exciting.
But what happens when the web servers you're setting up
needs some specific internal configuration,
like an operating system patch,
an environment variable, or files in a specific folder.
Are you going to SSH into each of the 1,000 web
servers and perform the commands needed to solve those issues?
You've gotten this far with automating all the things,
why go manual now?
There should be a tool that lets you send in 1,000 remote
control robots through an SSH tunnel and configure things for you.
Well, we're all in luck,
there are actually a few choices out there.
Actually, there are more than I have time to talk about,
but I'll point out just the top three most popular.
Chef has been around for several years and is still pretty popular,
it depends on an agent to be installed on the instance though,
which makes it harder to work with in my opinion.
SaltStack is a pretty lightweight tool that helps provision servers.
It keeps inventory on a central server,
but it's easier to work with than Chef.
There's Ansible. Ansible can do everything
the other tools can do but without a central server or agents.
It's also very fast and lightweight.
Tools like these are great for everything that
happens after the server instances are running.
We're going to focus on Ansible since it's currently the most popular
and because it doesn't require an agent to be running on the instance beforehand.
Ansible connects to a remote machine using
SSH and executes commands and scripts remotely.
If you already have some scripts written to set up an instance,
you can reuse those scripts easily with Ansible.
After all, it's just about SSH and bash.